welcome back everyone lhasa montgomery
here once again with another china
history podcast episode number 2 to 2
part 5 in our well i guess you could now
call it a long-running series on the
history of tong poetry if you last it
through the last four installments
thanks for sticking with the program you
know I had my doubts about this topic
since most people I know don't give a
hoot about poetry or any world lit for
that matter but strong showing so far
with all four parts of the series and I
got that leap I bump last time in part
four but as you can tell this series is
pretty long on the history side of
things and I'm sparing you all the
jargon and technical aspects of poetry
and if you're already a lover of Chinese
poetry and very familiar with this
subject I hope you don't find this too
jae-joon let's face it in Chinese poetry
there is leap I do fool and everyone
else no sense beating around the bush
and like I said last time many will say
leap I was the greatest and others will
declare no one top till fool and it was
a stones and beetles thing both produced
great work but depending how you liked
your poetry leap I satisfied some and do
fool others last episode we looked at
leap Eyes life and read a few of his
poems I think if you never knew anything
about him before now at least you know
he was a romantic and a Taoist who loved
to wander a century China and get boozed
up all the time and enjoy life to the
fullest he eschewed the traditional path
aspired by most educated young man a
career as a civil servant just as a
pirate's life wasn't for everybody so it
was with Lee PI and the tongue
bureaucracy he preferred to wander from
place to place around China stay for a
while here and there and leave I was
famous in his own time and well this
isn't documented or anything but I bet
he never had to pick up the check at
anyone
house he drank at do fool he didn't have
it as good as leap I in this episode I
wanted to introduce his life to you
I think I would have rather been Levi
even though it meant sacrificing my
liver and probably having many a rough
morning after doufu he had it rough
let's look at his life he's called a
sure sure and the sure Shung the poet
historian and the poet sage poet
historian because one thing doufu was
famous for was how he chronicled the
tumultuous times he lived in through his
poetry and do Fu's observations and how
he communicated the extent of the misery
through his poems worked hand in hand
with historical documents and other
histories of the times to add some color
and texture to the overall picture of
mid 8th century China likely by doufu
moved around a lot though not as much
but he spent a lot of time in the two
most important cities of Tang Dynasty
China Chang An and law young the two
capitals as a civil servant at least for
a while he had a job that gave him
access to the Emperor his world for a
short time anyway orbited the top Royals
of the Tang court but unlikely by who
could take it or leave that as far as a
career in the civil service even at the
imperial court do foo really wanted it
he came from a long line of bureaucrats
I mean nothing fancy or renowned but for
most all you had to do was get in the
door become part of the system
yeah Lee PI some call the Taoist poet
and do foo he's the Confucian poet in
the song they lionized him first
Confucian morality and his devotion to
the Tong royal house do foo lived 712 to
770 Tong Emperor's raids on to die tome
most accounts say he came from
present-day Gong Yi midway between law
yang and Jung Cho
in ancient and historic Hunan Province
in his youth he took to wandering this
was between 731 735 and he took in the
sights and jung-soo and judge young very
little is known about this period in his
life except that in 735 he headed to
Chung on to go sit for the gene share
exam now despite poetry being integral
to the whole exam not to mention coming
from such a long line of officials who
had all passed do foo failed in his
first attempt so from 736 to 740 do foo
hit the road again and wandered all
around Shandong and Hebei provinces
before heading to law Jung the following
year and as I mentioned last episode
those two fateful years of 744 and 745
do fluently buys paths crossed they
became fast friends and although they
will never meet again in their lifetimes
they kept up a famous correspondence
always communicating with each other
through poetry that was the the time way
to do it in 746 du feu went back to
Chung on to try his luck again in the
civil service exams the good Emperor
Shandong had called for a special
sitting of the civil service exams and
was most anxious to recruit some new
blood into the system du feu got on the
list of candidates but it wasn't meant
to be regardless of how well each
candidate might have performed on the
test it was rigged from the start
and transoms chancellor li linfu
wary of any young whippersnappers
possibly moving in on his turf made sure
not a single person passed the ginger
exam and once again do Fu's hopes were
dashed two times unlucky and he was
already 34 years old
du feu he lingered in Chang'an for a
while after that his first son was born
in 750 and another in 753 -
after that in December 755 the an lushan
rebellion started now you've heard me
mention this a bunch of times and the
subject has been covered in past CHP
episodes in other history of China
podcasts and even Melvyn Bragg my hero
even he covered the an Lucien rebellion
in an old in our time episode so no need
to get into the details except to say it
was a disaster for everyone from the
emperor on down to the peasants trying
to stay out of harm's way
and poor old du feu and his family they
all got sucked into the vortex of the
whole thing I didn't mention du feu did
pass the civil service exam finally but
as soon as he got his first modest
posting somewhere well that's when
everything fell to pieces in North China
so du feu like a lot of people had to
put his dreams on hold and make sure he
and his family didn't meet an early
demise he led them to fou Jo not the one
in Fujin this is Phu Jo and it would be
in today's northern Shaanxi province
just south of historic Yin on and in one
of the defining acts of do Fu's life
after he had his wife and kids safe he
headed back towards the direction of
Chang An to offer whatever aid he could
to the Tong Emperor by 756 with law yang
already plundered and hung on under
siege emperor xuanzong the good old days
now just a distant memory fled the scene
and we all know fleeing together with
the Emperor was his favorite concubine
young qui fais and her cousin Yang Guang
and everyone who worked for the Emperor
closely or from a distance blame those
two for this historic reversal of
fortune so that whole thing played out
at tragic ending for this once great
emperor whose era to find the Tong
dynasty's most glorious decades
everything fell apart for him
young wife a met her end and now
Shenzhen's son suit song
he's now sitting on a very uneasy throne
in exile just west of the capital in
function and was in the direction of
function that doufu set out and later
Confucian as' are going to heap praise
on do fool for taking care of his family
and facing a premature ending in his
determination to offer his assistance to
the Emperor except he didn't make it he
ended up getting captured by the an Liu
Shan rebels and detained and Chung on
for four months but law young and
Changmin had by then fallen to the
rebels anyway
who knew amongst these rebels that they
were holding in captivity the greatest
poet in all of Chinese history doufu
managed to sneak away and made his way
to function to join up with the suit
song Emperor's retinue now somewhere
along the way after hooking up with them
doufu did something to make the Emperor
unhappy so he had to make himself scarce
he went north to Fujio to check in with
his family and then he made his way back
to chung on which by 7:58 was back in
Tong hands do Fuu wound up getting a
small appointment and his unspectacular
career as a Chinese civil servant took
another left turn and he was sent away
to serve in a city east of Chung on
history has proven that famine and
rebellion often go hand in hand and one
of the consequences of the an lushan
rebellion was the disruption to
agriculture they had to this some bad
weather and you know the rest to get
away from all this
do foo picked up and started heading to
the west towards gansu province this is
around 759 he stayed for a while and
then made his way south to Chengdu and
here and Chengdu doufu caught a breather
and had some of the happiest years of
his life and like his friend Li Bai
wherever he went was always composing
poetry and he didn't just remember these
poems in his head he wrote them down and
stored them in scroll form in some sort
of box or trunk or you know whatever and
he had to transport them wherever he
went
that was his thumb drive and when you
read do Fu's poems in the context of the
historical timeline like I said he added
a lot of imagery to these names dates
and places that's why every book of his
poetry somewhere in the intro you'll see
those two words sure sure
the poet historian anyone familiar with
Chengdu or whoever has been there as a
tourist surely paid their respects at
the doufu Sultan there doufu built his
famous thatched hut and spent four happy
years there he wrote some of his best
material and Chengdu was far enough away
from the unleash on rebellion they
figured he could sleep a little easier
but wishful thinking onto Fu's part by
762 the rebels made their way down to
Sichuan province and do full yeah the
cut and run and by 764 everything had
quieted down and he was back in his
thatched hut writing poems and working
another government job of no great
importance 765 doufu resigned his post
and sailed down the eunsuh stopping in a
place called Kwai Cho today part of the
municipality of Chongqing Li Bai had
passed through there in 756 do foo must
a lightweight show because he stayed for
a couple years
departing in 768 in the direction of
Hunan province he stayed around daunting
Lake the body of water that acts as the
dividing point between Hunan and Hebei
and I hate to say it but that was pretty
much the end of do fool he was planning
to make another visit to the capital
Chung on but he passed away in 770 not
very
far from present-day Changsha in Hunan
he could visit his tomb in ping Chang
County about 90 minutes from downtown
Changsha his whole life doufu was never
a healthy man
he suffered from lung ailments believed
to be asthma he was diabetic he was deaf
in one air and his eyesight wasn't that
great either
and in introducing his life story I'm
sure you can all tell except for a few
moments of respite here and there he
lived a very stressful life witnessing
the end of the Chi UN era and the
devastation of the an lushan rebellion
his life straddled the best and worst
years of the Tong
one thing the scholars say about du feu
that they don't say about Li PI and
others is that he was very very
difficult to translate from classical
Chinese to a foreign language I
mentioned in part one about Chinese
characters having multiple meanings and
a character that means something today
often had these archaic usages there are
all kinds of subtleties that are lost
when translating from the original
Chinese to any language some translators
have du feu in English are more famous
and respected than others but it's
pretty much impossible to say one
translation is the closest to what the
poet actually meant one must constantly
refer to the footnotes when reading do
full in translation but many of the
great ones perhaps Stephen Owen chief
among them have been given the nod by
their peers as having captured the
essence of du Fu's poems and translated
them faithfully and accurately Stephen
Owens six-volume magnum opus on the
complete works of du feu is the go-to
source for aficionados of du Fu's poetry
in English translation
David Hawks a little primer of du feu is
also a good one I have a link to those
books in the show notes and even though
it isn't the
name is reading doufu in the original
Chinese doufu satisfies and he's beloved
all over the world not just in his
native land about two-thirds of do Fu's
poems are Luscher regulated verse poems
eight lines five or seven characters per
line like Li Bai he wasn't so much an
innovator or discoverer of something new
he just took the existing rules of
poetry and brought them to extraordinary
Heights that all people agreed even in
do Fu's lifetime that we're quite
special all the accolades appreciation
and recognition for doufu began years
after his passing in the tongue but he
really gained immortality thanks to the
early anthologies of do Fu's work that
appeared in the northern Song Dynasty
along with the growth and
neo-confucianism and how these
neo-confucian as' and brace du feu yet
quite a heyday in the song even one
unsure there's a big name for you when
talking about the northern song he too
did a whole lot to fan the flames of do
lose popularity not to mention he was
also one of the many compilers of do
Fu's poetry and from that point forward
du feu the poet superstar was born and
it's been do Lu and lead by ever since
those two always held up in the highest
possible esteem after du feu passed
people began to appreciate a more an
early admirer was the great tong
statesman neo-confucian pioneer and
prose writer extraordinaire Han Yu who
pointed out do Fu's specialness Han you
live during the middle tong period and
amongst the tongue sure son by show the
300 tongue poems one of the definitive
collections of tong poetry that came out
during qianlong's time and the ching du
feu has the most poems a whopping thirty
nine thirteen
the collection Levi was in second place
with 34 and Wong way who will look at
next episode 29 between the three of
them 34 percent over a third of the
collection James home in his new book
introduction a tongue poetry picked out
several poems to get the feel for do
fool let's read a few of them here's
when he wrote thinking of his wife and
family he stashed in Foucault in 755
when he was being held captive in the
south and Chung on for four months by
the an lushan rebels
it's called tonight the moon shines over
Fuj oh yeah yeah
Jean yeah Phu Joliet Kwai Chung sure do
come y'all en Xiao are you wait yeah
each hung I'm Jung Woo
eun-hwan sure Ching way you be Han
sure sure ye Shi Huang Shuang JA lakyn
gun tonight the moon shines and Fuu Jo
she watches alone in her chamber I feel
sorry for my boy and girl they don't
understand why she thinks of Chung on
the fragrant mist moistens her dressed
hair her smooth arms cold in the clair
moonlight when can we lean by the lonely
window and see the reflection of our
drying tears here's another one called
spring view twin Wong this one made it
to the three hundred tongue poems it was
written in 757 and Chung on after the
city was taken back from the rebels war
paul-jean hood sai Chung Woon saw Mushin
gun sure watchin lay hun beer now Jing
Xin Fung Wah Lian sanur Jia
shoo d1 Ching bite Oh
sow gum dawn on you Bhushan son the
country is broken the mountains and
Hills remain in the city grass and trees
grow dense moved by the moment a flower
is splashed with my tears morning
parting a bird startles my heart the
beacon fires have burned for three
months now family letters are worth ten
thousand pieces of gold I scratch my
head it's white hairs grow thinner
barely able to hold a hairpin and this
is one of his poems that's pretty
self-explanatory it's called thinking of
leap I at the end of the sky it was
written in 759 the last two lines of the
poem you might recognize he's talking
about Chilean who we discussed in part
one it's called ten more wily by young
Foong Chee ten more
jinsol ear ooh ha ha en G shirt ow
jeong-ho chill shui door when Chung some
mint ah sure may Sheeran Guo Jing Gong
un-hun you told her tongue me law a cold
wind rises above the sky what's on the
gentleman's mind when does the wild
goose arrive the rivers and lakes are
full of autumn waters the literature
dislikes success the demons rejoice at
people's faults let's talk to the soul
of the poet who has been wronged toss a
poem into the me Law River as a gift and
here's another one of do Foos that made
it to the 300 tongue poems
it's called ascending ya young tower
year yang is a city in Hoonah
located on the west bank of daunting
Lake Chairman Mao
love this poem well maybe being from
Hunan at all
dong Yi yang lo she when taunting Shui
King Xiang yang lo Wu to turn on Cho
Chang Kwon cheerful Ching Poong weeds
lopping yo couch Oh Rama Kuan xianbei
ping Shan tea sir Leo of old I heard of
the waters of daunting Lake
now I've climbed to the top of your
young tower here oh and Chu are split to
east and west here heaven and earth are
floating day and night
from family and friends comes not a
single word old and sick I have one
solitary boat war horses are riding
north of the mountain pass I lean on the
railing as tears flow down du feu
everybody arguably China's greatest poet
period in his own lifetime he wasn't
praised like he is today and after his
passing and especially so in the Song
Dynasty do fool got a nice once-over and
pretty much ever since then he's been
considered the gold standard by which
all Chinese poets are judged and ever
since then he's had plenty of imitators
often imitated but never duplicated as
the Song Dynasty unfolded there came an
avalanche of commentaries that analyze
every aspect of do lose fourteen hundred
or so poems he was considered the king
of regulated verse I read a few of them
for you and as far as being included
amongst all the grandest cultural
treasures from the thousands of years of
Chinese history
he's right up there with the best of
them with Lee by right beside him okay
let's call it a day we've got the big
two out of the way I wanted to run
through some of the other most
celebrated poets of the Tong dynasty I
think we can knock this off in two or
three more episodes we'll see Laszlo
Montgomery signing off from Los Angeles
California still managing to come to you
every two weeks with such consistency
you got something to say to me I'm here
for you 24/7 ladies and gentlemen's at
lszl at tea cup top media I'd love to
hear from you come back for more of this
stuff next time if you feel so inclined
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast